.. _development:

Developing patchwork
====================

Using virtualenv
----------------

It's a good idea to use virtualenv to develop Python software. Virtual
environments are "instances" of your system Python, without any of the
additional Python packages installed. They are useful to develop and
deploy patchwork against a "well known" set of dependencies, but they
can also be used to test patchwork against several versions of Django.

1. Install pip, virtualenv (python-pip, python-virtualenv packages)

Because we're going to recompile our dependencies, we'll also need
development headers. For the MySQL/MariaDB setups these are
``mariadb-devel`` (Fedora), ``libmysqlclient-dev`` (Debian)

2. Create a new virtual environement.

Inside a virtual env, we'll just install the dependencies needed for
patchwork and run it from there.

::

    $ virtualenv django-1.8

This will create a virtual env called 'django-1.8' in eponymous
directory.

3. Activate a virtual environment

::

    $ source django-1.8/bin/activate
    (django-1.8)$

The shell prompt is preprended with the virtual env name.

4. Install the required dependencies

To ease this task, it's customary to maintain a list of dependencies in
a text file and install them in one go. One can maintain such a list of
dependencies per interesting configuration.

::

    (django-1.8)$ pip install -r docs/requirements-dev.txt

You will also need to install a version of Django - we don't install
this by default to allow development against multiple versions of
Django. This can be installed like so (assuming Django 1.8):

::

    (django-1.8)$ pip install 'django<1.9,>=1.8'

Of course, this is a one-time step: once installed in the virtual
environment there is no need to to install requirements again.

5. Run the development server

::

    (django-1.8)$ ./manage.py --version 1.8
    (django-1.8)$ ./manage.py runserver

Once finished, you can kill the server (``Ctrl`` + ``C``) and exit the
virtual environment:

::

    (django-1.8)$ deactivate
    $

Should you wish to re-enter this environment, simply source the
``activate`` script again.

Running Tests
-------------

patchwork includes a `tox <https://tox.readthedocs.org/en/latest/>`__
script to automate testing. Before running this, you should probably
install tox:

::

    $ pip install tox

You can show available targets like so:

::

    $ tox --list

You'll see that this includes a number of targets to run unit tests
against the different versions of Django supported, along with some
other targets related to code coverage and code quality. To run these,
use the ``-e`` parameter:

::

    $ tox -e py27-django18

In the case of the unit tests targets, you can also run specific tests
by passing the fully qualified test name as an additional argument to
this command:

::

    $ tox -e py27-django18 patchwork.tests.SubjectCleanUpTest

Because patchwork supports multiple versions of Django, it's very
important that you test against all supported versions. When run without
argument, tox will do this:

::

    $ tox

